Programming Background
================

## ST 558 Blog Post 2

**Prompt**: Everyone in this course had some programming experience
coming in (due to the prerequisites). What are your thoughts on R vs
whatever other software you’ve used? What functionality do you like
about R? What parts do you miss about your other language? Do you
consider R a difficult language to learn? (If you knew R prior to the
course, describe your experience when first learning it.)

Prior to this course, my programming experience was primarily limited to
SAS. As an undergraduate student, I exclusively used SAS, as prescribed
by the Statistics Department at Elon University. Additionally, each of
the 3 classes I have taken here at NC State as a part of the Graduate
Certificate Program have utilized SAS. Most recently, I completed ST 555
over the summer and subsequently obtained my SAS Base Programming
Certification.

This class has been my first true exposure to R in any level of depth. I
have found it a bit difficult to pick up, because I’ve become accustomed
to one specific software (SAS) over the past 6+ years of my studies, so
naturally anything ‘new’ can feel a bit daunting.

When comparing R to SAS, I find that there are elements I like (and
dislike) about each. For example, I like that SAS has a more
standardized language. The code you are writing does not change,
depending on the function you are using or the data you are analyzing. I
find that in R, the code styles can differ greatly from package to
package and that there might be more than one way to do the same thing,
which can make it a bit more confusing, especially as a new learner.
What I like about R is that it has more versatility and breadth than
SAS, meaning R can go beyond just the data analysis to then also provide
different means and styles of *communicating* that data analysis to
stakeholders. This is that last ‘step’ of the data science process that
is so critical.

Overall, I know I still have a lot to learn about R and it’s different
features, and I look forward to being able to expand my knowledge and
perhaps one day use it in parallel with SAS.

## R Markdown Output
